---
title: "Scaffolding CS1 Courses with a Large Language Model-Powered Intelligent Tutoring System"
layout: single
---

## Abstract
AbstractView references

Programming skills are rapidly becoming essential for many educational paths and career opportunities. Yet, for many international students, the traditional approach to teaching introductory programming courses can be a significant challenge due to the complexities of the language, the lack of prior programming knowledge, and the language and cultural barriers. This study explores how large language models and gamification can scaffold coding learning and increase Chinese students' sense of belonging in introductory programming courses. In this project, a gamification intelligent tutoring system was developed to adapt to Chinese international students' learning needs and provides scaffolding to support their success in introductory computer programming courses. My research includes three studies: a formative study, a user study of an initial prototype, and a computer simulation study with a user study in progress. Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected through surveys, observations, focus group discussions and computer simulation. The preliminary findings suggest that GPT-3-enhanced gamification has great potential in scaffolding introductory programming learning by providing adaptive and personalised feedback, increasing students' sense of belonging, and reducing their anxiety about learning programming. © 2023 Owner/Author.
