---
title: "Desirable Characteristics for AI Teaching Assistants in Programming
  Education"
layout: single
---

## Abstract
Providing timely and personalized feedback to large numbers of students is a
long-standing challenge in programming courses. Relying on human teaching
assistants (TAs) has been extensively studied, revealing a number of potential
shortcomings. These include inequitable access for students with low confidence
when needing support, as well as situations where TAs provide direct solutions
without helping students to develop their own problem-solving skills. With the
advent of powerful large language models (LLMs), digital teaching assistants
configured for programming contexts have emerged as an appealing and scalable
way to provide instant, equitable, round-the-clock support. Although digital
TAs can provide a variety of help for programming tasks, from high-level
problem solving advice to direct solution generation, the effectiveness of such
tools depends on their ability to promote meaningful learning experiences. If
students find the guardrails implemented in digital TAs too constraining, or if
other expectations are not met, they may seek assistance in ways that do not
help them learn. Thus, it is essential to identify the features that students
believe make digital teaching assistants valuable. We deployed an LLM-powered
digital assistant in an introductory programming course and collected student
feedback ($n=813$) on the characteristics of the tool they perceived to be most
important. Our results highlight that students value such tools for their
ability to provide instant, engaging support, particularly during peak times
such as before assessment deadlines. They also expressed a strong preference
for features that enable them to retain autonomy in their learning journey,
such as scaffolding that helps to guide them through problem-solving steps
rather than simply being shown direct solutions.
