---
title: "Automated Analysis of Algorithm Descriptions Quality, Through Large Language Models"
layout: single
---

## Abstract
AbstractView references

In this paper we propose a method to classify the students’ textual descriptions of algorithms. This work is based on a wealth of data (programming tasks, related algorithm descriptions, and Peer Assessment data), coming from 6 years of use of the system Q2A, in a “Fundamentals of Computer Programming” course, given at first year in our university’s Computer Science curriculum. The descriptions are submitted, as part of the answer to a computer programming task, through Q2A, and are subject to (formative) Peer Assessment. The proposed classification method aims to support the teacher on the analysis of the quite numerous students’ descriptions, in ours as well as in other similar systems. We 1) process the students’ submissions, by topic automated extraction (BERTopic) and by separate Large Language Models, 2) compute their degree of suitability as “algorithm description”, in a scale from BAD to GOOD, and 3) compare the obtained classification with those coming from the teacher’s direct assessment (expert: one of the authors), and from the Peer Assessment. The automated classification does correlate with both the expert classification and the grades given by the peers to the “clarity” of the descriptions. This result is encouraging in view of the production of a Q2A subsystem allowing the teacher to analyse the students’ submissions guided by an automated classification, and ultimately support fully automated grading. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024.
